2. WOLF 

Once upon a time, there was a wolf who had never known hunger. He always rejoiced, happy with himself and with his life. He grew so proud that he decided to go on a pilgrimage. He wrapped his head in plants, making something like a turban, and left on the pilgrimage.
He travelled for a long time, far away from his native land. Along the way, he met a donkey. Frightened, the donkey jumped out of the way.
"Don’t bolt away from me, donkey. I am following the righteous path now, I've decided to go on a pilgrimage. You have nothing to fear from me," the wolf said. When he heard these words, the donkey went back to his grazing spot and started nibbling the grass.
Meanwhile, the wolf walked on. Along the way he met an ox. Afraid of the wolf, the ox jumped aside. But the wolf was full as always. He didn’t want to eat the ox. He said:
“Ox, don’t run away from me. I am following the righteous path, and I won’t touch you. Don’t be afraid of me.”
When he heard these words, the ox calmly went back to grazing.
The wolf continued on his way. Soon after he met a horse. Just like the donkey and the ox, the horse was afraid at first, and jumped out of the way. But the wolf reassured him:
“Why are you running away from me, horse? You shouldn’t be afraid of me, because I have chosen the righteous path. I have decided to go on a pilgrimage.”
The horse went back to grazing happily.
The farther the wolf went from his native land, the more tired and hungry he felt, and he began to wonder if he was wasting his time on this pilgrimage. He thought to himself: "Maybe I should turn back, take this rag off my head and eat the donkey, the ox, and the horse? What do I need this pilgrimage for? I would be better off eating my fill and having a quiet life."
He thought for a while, and then decided to return home. He come across the horse again. The horse said to the wolf:
“So you decided not to go on the pilgrimage after all? But didn’t you just say that you were stepping on the righteous path?”
“I changed my mind. I decided that I would be better off staying at home and eating the meat of the horse, the ox, and the donkey,” the wolf answered.
“Fine,” said the horse. “You can live off my meat till the end of your days. But before you eat me, please remove this nail from my horseshoe. My foot hurts terribly.”
The wolf came closer to the horse and asked:
“Which one of your feet has a nail stuck in it?”
As soon as the wolf got close enough, the horse deftly kicked him in the head with his iron-shod foot.
The wolf lay prostrate for a long time before he came round. Then he got up and walked on. He met the ox along the way. When the ox noticed the wolf, returning earlier than he expected, the ox asked:
“Why did you return, wolf? You said that you were following the righteous path.”
“I changed my mind. I am better off feeding on the meat of oxen and donkeys than travelling to the end of the Earth,” the wolf answered.
“Fine, you can feast on me till the end of your life and everafter, I only ask that before you start eating me, you take this worm out of my horn,” the ox said.
“Just show me where it is,” the wolf said and came up to the ox. As soon as the wolf got close, the ox butted him with his horns and threw him to the ground.
When the wolf regained consciousness, he stood up slowly and continued his journey home. Along the way, he met the donkeys. The donkey asked the wolf:
“Why are you coming back, wolf? Didn’t you say that you were on a pilgrimage and that you were on the righteous path?”
“I changed my mind and decided to return home. I will live better at home, eating donkey meat,” the wolf answered.
“Well, if that’s the way it is,” the donkey replied, “you can feast on me for the rest of your life. Just give me a moment to climb up that mountain and to sing my last song,” the donkey asked. The wolf, who was not asked to go anywhere near horns or hooves, suspecting nothing, allowed the donkey to climb the mountain.
“Sing your song then.”
When he reached the mountaintop, the donkey began to bray:
“Hee-haw, hee-haw!”
People heard the donkey's voice. “Our donkeys are in danger!” they shouted, and ran to rescue the ass and take him home, while they chased the wolf away with sticks, hoes and spades.
The wolf ran away from his pursuers and reached the forest, then lay down on the grass and cried bitterly:
“Oh, woe to me! I am not hadji, to go on a pilgrimage. I am no blacksmith, to wrest nails from horseshoes. I am no doctor, to extract worms from oxen horns. Nor am I a guest, to listen to donkey's singing. Oh, woe to me!” Thus he cried in the depth of forest, and his mournful howling was heard for a long time and from far away.
https://t-chagaeva.livejournal.com/18281.html
